Prisma Object Relational Model (ORM)
 Prisma refers to an open-source next-generation ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) tool that simplifies database access and management for developers. It acts as a bridge between your application and the database, allowing you to interact with the database using a type-safe and intuitive API.
An ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) is a technique or a tool that allows developers to interact with a database using an object-oriented approach, rather than writing SQL queries.
Some examples of ORMs include:
SQLAlchemy (Python)
Sequelize (JavaScript)
Hibernate (Java)
 Prisma
Drizzle
Benefits of using an ORM
Productivity:  Reduces amount of boilerplate code for database interactions.
Portability: Makes it easier to switch databases without signiificant code changes 
Security: Helps prevent SQL injection by using parameterized queries.
Maintainence: Simplifies the mainteinence of databases interactions and schema changes.
 Steps to use Prisma
 Install Prisma as dev dependency.
   
To install Prisma, run the following command:
     


Set Up prisma project by creating a schema file.
  
run the command below:
 

Replace DATABASE with the database that you are using, assuming you are using postgresql:
 


Creating your models(s).
-  Models represent the different tables in your database.
- Models are made up of fields (fields correspond to the columns in our database).

Key Concepts Of  Prisma Models
1. Data Models:  Define the tables and their collumns (fields) in your database.
2. Fields Types: Specify the data for each field(eg String ,Int , Boolean, bytes, float, decimal).
3. relations: Describe how models relate to each other using relations fields.
4.  Attributes: Add aditional metadata to fields and models using attributes like @id, @default, @ relation @unique, @map, @relation.
Run migrations to reflect changes in your databases.
 
- In Prisma, migrations are a way to manage and apply changes to your database in a controlled and consistent way.

- Whenever you make modifications to your Prisma schema (schema.prisma), such as adding, removing, or altering fields or models, you create a new migration to reflect those changes in your actual database.

- To run a migration, execute the following command 

for example: 
 
Generate the client and use it in your project.

PRISMA CLIENT
The Prisma Client is an auto-generated and type-safe database client that you use to interact with your database in a Node.js or TypeScript application. It’s generated based on the models you define in your Prisma schema (schema.prisma) and provides a simple, intuitive, and type-safe API for CRUD operations, filtering, pagination, and more.
To generate a client, we use the command:
    
If it is not already installed, run the command:
   

CREATE READ UPDATE DELETE (CRUD)
1.CREATING
-  single record -  create()
 - multiple recording - createMany()

2. READ
-  Get all : FindMany()
- Find the first record :  findFirst() and apply the filter usin Where
Comparison operators in prisma
Equals: matches eactly e.g {age: {rquals:25}}
not: matches 'not equal to specified value e.g {age: { not:25} }
lt: less than eg { age{lt: 25}}
lte: less that or equal to eg {age :{lte :16}}
gt: greater than eg {age : { gt 24})}
gte: greater than or equal to eg { age: { gte: 19}}

String filters
equals: matches exactly
contains: matches if the string contains the specified substring 
startsWith: matches if the string starts with the specified string
endsWith: matches if the string ends with the specified string

3. UPDATE
- Update a single record - update()
- Update multiple records using - updateMany()

4. DELETE
- Delete  single record - delete ()
- Delete multiple records  - deleteMany()

Relationships
Relationships define how different models (tables) in a database are connected to each other.
Prisma uses a schema to define these relationships making it easier to work with relational databases.
types of relationships
one-to-one relationship (1-1): means that one record in a table is associated to only one record in another table.

 
one-to-many relationship (1-n): means that one record in a table can be associated with multiple other records in another table.
 

many-to-many relationship (m-n): means that multiple records in one table can be associated to multiple records in another table.
 






